# CS-340-Client-Server-Development
SNHU Client/Server Development Course Artifacts -- Dash Framework and MongoDB dashboard


Writing maintainable, readable, and adaptable programs is paramount when designing and developing applications of all kinds, especially when you know that programs are read more than written, and affect other people. In particular, considering the CRUD Python Module within this project, it was actually really important for it to be all of those things, because as I came back to it week after week, it was really important for me to re-read all of the code to reacquaint myself with what each part was doing as I extended it for further functionality. Clarity is more imortant than cleverness in the long run. And as such, I could still use this CRUD Python Module for other MongoDB interfaces, as all that would really have to be changed within the module is the input information for the database, collection, and authentication credentials, and otherwise a lot of the code could be easily used now, and otherwise extended/adapted to be a proper API for other database applications and new client interfaces.

Approaching problems as a computer scientist requires understanding the particular problem at hand and the specifics of the desired end state. So a lot goes into planning first, then appropriate design given constraints and real-world tradeoffs in order to only THEN begin building out the appropriate programs with the right algorithms and design patterns to meet the desired end states.

Computer scientists use their knowledge of systems, data structures, and algorithms to plan, design, and develop useful applications for those with less technical knowledge but big impact in all areas of industry and society to utilize one of the most powerful tools at our disposal, computer technology. Working on projects like this dashboard interface for a company like Grazioso Salvare to help identify, locate, and acquire dogs in animal centers that are prime candidates for special operations and rescue training is wildly impactful, as there will always be a need for such animals, and it makes sense to pull them from animal centers and shelters where they are usually pressed for space and resources, helping rescue people and rescue the rescue animals!
